# v0.1.* Upgrade

The v0.1.* release series is the *only* release series of the MySQL Operator
which supports MySQL 5.7. InnoDB Group replication and associated tooling has
been dramatically improved with the GA release of MySQL 8 (8.0.11). As a result
from the v0.2.0 MySQL Operator release onwards MySQL 8.0.11 is the __minimum
supported version__.

Due to the complexities of the upgrade path between MySQL 5.7 and MySQL 8 we
aren't implementing an upgrade path between the v0.1.* and v0.2.* MySQL Operator
release series.

Instead users need to:

 1) Backup all MySQL Clusters deployed by the MySQL Operator. NOTE: If you
    choose to use the inbuilt backup functionality of the MySQL Operator for
    this you will need to ensure you save the associated MySQLBackup resources
    locally, update them in line with the v0.2.0 API changes, and the recreate
    them after installing v0.2.0.
 3) Delete the MySQL Operator release

    ```console
    $ helm delete mysql-operator
    ```
    NOTE: You may have named the installed MySQL Operator release something
    different during installation (see `helm list`).
 4) Follow the installation instructions to install v0.2.0 of the MySQL
    Operator.
 5) Create replacement MySQL Clusters using the updated API and restore the
    backups created in step #1.

## Other Breaking Changes

Additionally, we have taken this opportunity to make a number of breaking
changes to the MySQL Operator API to improve its usability.

### API Version Downgrade

We have downgraded the API Version from `v1` to `v1alpha1` to enable future
iteration on the API design (taking advantage of the fact that [Custom Resource
Definitions can now define multiple versions][1]) and to better reflect the
stability of the MySQL Operator API.

### Resource Kinds Renamed

Previously the MySQL Operator Custom Resource Kinds were prefixed with MySQL
(e.g.  `MySQLCluster`). This prefix has been removed, however, the prefix has
been maintained in the singular/plural names used when interacting via
`kubectl` (e.g. `kubectl get mysqlclusters`).

### API changes

Numerous fields on all MySQL Operator Custom Resources have been renamed and
some field types changed. Please review [`pkg/apis/mysql/v1alpha1/types.go`][2]
as the definitive source of truth and see the updated [`examples/`][3].

[1]: https://kubernetes.io/blog/2018/06/27/kubernetes-1.11-release-announcement/#custom-resource-definitions-can-now-define-multiple-versions
[2]: https://github.com/oracle/mysql-operator/blob/master/pkg/apis/mysql/v1alpha1/types.go
[3]: https://github.com/oracle/mysql-operator/tree/master/examples
